in the next segment we're going to have
some
show some sentences that have more
rotations one is literal and is not
funny
whereas the second one is not the
intended one and can be sometimes very
funny so the first such example is
children make delicious snacks imagine
this is a headline in some newspaper
story the point of the author was
essentially to report that some kids
were preparing some snacks to evade
tasty however because of the way that
the sentence is constructed
syntactically it also may be interpreted
as children are very tasty when you eat
them let me show you a few more such
sentences that have this kind of
unintentional meaning that is funny
stolen painting found by treats as if
the tree found the painting I saw the
Rockies flying to San Francisco here the
funny interpretation is one where the
Rockies are flying to San Francisco
court to try shooting defendant instead
of trying or putting on trial a
defendant of the shooting we actually
want to shoot the defendant ban on nude
dancing on governor's desk
red tape holds up new bridges governor
government head seeks arms
Blair wins on budget more lies ahead
local high school dropouts
cut in half hospitals are sued by seven
foot doctors dead expected to rise
miners refused to work after death
patient at death's door doctors put him
through and finally in a make a woman
has a baby every 15 minutes how does she
do that
so the previous slide showed you some
what I called classic examples of them
biggest headlines this slide is going to
show you some examples that I actually
collected on the internet recently
the first one is Vancouver police shoot
man holding box cutter so the two
possible interpretations here is that
the man who was shot was holding the box
cutter which is probably what was
intended and the other interpretation is
that the box cutter was used by the
police to shoot the man
another example men armed with box
cutters shot by officers which is the
same story police shoot men with box
cutters in a story and police shoot men
using box cutters and police shoot man
with box cutters in the third fourth and
fifth example we have an instance of
what is known as a prepositional phrase
attachment where a prepositional phrase
such as with box cutters can refer to
either the nearest noun man or to the
verb shoot so in the case when it refers
to the nearest noun it modifies it so
the man was carrying the box cutters if
it modifies the verb then with box
cutter modifies the way in which the
person was shot and a few more of your
headlines just for fun bow ganga doubles
money for parties motorola to hire 300
Android developers Massachusetts exhales
as bill passes heads to Canada us eyes
returns to the moon and finally
flesh-eating bug survivor goes home all
those are here are headlines as you can
see from the URLs so let me now show you
some examples of ambiguous
recommendations which will illustrate
different issues with natural language
so a funny example here is a man like
him is hard to find this is written in
reference to a chronically absent
employee so the intended interpretation
of the sentence is that this person was
so difficult to find that because he was
absent all the time but the sentence was
made to look like a real recommendation
Center specifically somebody who's so
valuable that people like him are really
difficult to find so here we have an
instance of what is known as a lexical
ambiguity so the word hard to find I'm
sorry the phrase hard to find has
multiple interpretations one case it
means somebody who is very valuable in
the other case it means somebody who's
hiding and here's some more examples of
lexical ambiguities for dishonest
employee he can say he's an unbelievable
worker
unbelievable here is the ambiguous word
it can mean somebody who's so good that
it's hard to believe that person exists
or it can also mean that this person
should never be believed for lazy
employee you can say you would indeed be
fortunate to get this person to work for
you again here the ambiguity comes from
the word fortunate in one case it means
that you will be happy to work with such
a person in the second case it means
that it would be a miracle if this
person got to work for you there are
other categories of linguistic
constructions that can cause ambiguity
for example we can have structural
ambiguity scope ambiguity and others so
in structure ambiguous are one example
for chronically absent employee you can
say it seemed that his career or her
career was just taking off so here the
ambiguity comes from the fact that
taking off can refer to that the fact
that the career was just starting
meaning that this person had even more
good things in their future or it means
that her career was just the business of
taking off from work in the scope
ambiguous we can look at an example of
for an employee who is not worth
considering as a job candidate you can
say oh we know I cannot say enough good
things about this candidate or recommend
him too highly so here the ambiguity
comes from the fact that say enough good
things can mean that either you have
only a few good things to say about this
person or that you have way too many
good things to say about this person if
you want to find more examples of this
kind of funny recommendations you can
look up Beatrice and talk in this
collection on the Internet okay so now
in the next segment we are going to talk
about the administration of this class